.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_ROLE_HIER_START 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_role_hier_start
.Nd add a start (source) node to a hierarchy
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdint.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_role_hier_start
.Fa "struct sqlbox_role_hier *p"
.Fa "size_t start"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Set
.Fa start
such that it may transition into any other role in
.Fa p
but that no other role may transition into it.
These are usually called
.Qq sources
but called starting nodes to disambiguate from
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_src 3 .
The node may not already be the parent or child of any other node as set
with
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_child 3
nor a sink node.
There may be multiple starting nodes.
Setting multiple times as a start is a no-op.
.Pp
A start has sibling transition to all other nodes: it will not inherit
any permissions from other nodes.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns zero if
.Fa start
is not a valid role, has already been assigned as a child or parent, is
a sink, or memory allocation fails.
Returns non-zero otherwise.
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_alloc 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
