.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_ROLE_HIER_STMT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_role_hier_stmt
.Nd add a permission to a role
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdint.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_role_hier_src
.Fa "struct sqlbox_role_hier *p"
.Fa "size_t role"
.Fa "size_t src"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_role_hier_stmt
.Fa "struct sqlbox_role_hier *p"
.Fa "size_t role"
.Fa "size_t stmt"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Add permissions (statements or sources) to a role.
Adding a duplicate permission is a noop.
Adding the same permission as claimed by an ancestor is effectively a
noop as well.
These permissions will be inherited by any children (see
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_child 3 )
when the roles are generated with
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_gen 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns zero if
.Fa role
exceeds the number of roles specified in
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_alloc 3
or if memory allocation fails.
Returns non-zero otherwise.
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_child 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_gen 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
