.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_EXEC 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_exec ,
.Nm sqlbox_exec_async
.Nd execute a statement with bound parameters
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stddef.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft enum sqlbox_code
.Fo sqlbox_exec
.Fa "struct sqlbox *box"
.Fa "size_t src"
.Fa "size_t idx"
.Fa "size_t psz"
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_parm *ps"
.Fa "unsigned long flags"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_exec_async
.Fa "struct sqlbox *box"
.Fa "size_t src"
.Fa "size_t idx"
.Fa "size_t psz"
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_parm *ps"
.Fa "unsigned long flags"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Executes an SQL statement.
It is short-hand for
.Xr sqlbox_prepare_bind 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_step 3 ,
and
.Xr sqlbox_free 3 ,
This should not be used to process any rows: if the SQL statement
returns rows, they are discarded and the operation is considered a
success.
See
.Xr sqlbox_prepare_bind 3
for a description of the arguments.
The
.Dv SQLBOX_STMT_MULTI
argument value for
.Fa flags
is always ignored with these functions.
.Pp
The synchronous
.Fn sqlbox_exec
returns whether the operation succeeded while
.Fn sqlbox_exec_async
only returns whether
.Fa box
was accessed, leaving an explicit check to
.Xr sqlbox_ping 3
or implicit with the next
.Fa box
operation.
.Ss SQLite3 Implementation
If passed a
.Fa psz
of zero, this invokes
.Xr sqlite3_exec 3 .
Otherwise, prepares with
.Xr sqlite3_prepare_v2 3 ,
binds parameters with the
.Xr sqlite3_bind_blob 3
family, executes with
.Xr sqlite3_step 3 ,
then frees with
.Xr sqlite3_finalize 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn sqlbox_exec
returns
.Dv SQLBOX_CODE_ERROR
if strings are not NUL-terminated at their size (if non-zero), memory
allocation fails, communication with
.Fa box
fails, the statement could not be prepared, the current role cannot
access the given statement, the statement violated the constraint, the
statement could not be executed, or the database raises errors.
Otherwise it returns
.Dv SQLBOX_CODE_OK ,
including if the statement returns rows (which are discarded).
In addition to these, it will also return
will also return
.Dv SQLBOX_CODE_CONSTRAINT
on constraint violation when
.Dv SQLBOX_STMT_CONSTRAINT
has been specified.
.Pp
.Fn sqlbox_exec_async
returns zero if strings are not NUL-terminated at their size (if
non-zero), memory allocation fails, or communication with
.Fa bo
fails.
Otherwise it returns the non-zero.
.Pp
Execution of
.Fn sqlbox_exec_async
is asynchronous: to check whether the operation succeeded, explicitly
use
.Xr sqlbox_ping 3 .
If it fails, subsequent access to
.Fa box
will fail.
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following opens a database
.Pa db.db
and inserts an integer value into it.
It depends upon
.Xr sqlbox_free 3
to close out the database.
.Bd -literal
size_t dbid, stmtid;
struct sqlbox *p;
struct sqlbox_cfg cfg;
struct sqlbox_src srcs[] = {
  { .fname = (char *)"db.db",
    .mode = SQLBOX_SRC_RW }
};
struct sqlbox_pstmt pstmts[] = {
  { .stmt = (char *)"INSERT INTO foo (bar) VALUES (?)" },
};
struct sqlbox_parm parms[] = {
  { .iparm = 10,
    .type = SQLBOX_PARM_INT },
};
const struct sqlbox_parmset *res;

memset(&cfg, 0, sizeof(struct sqlbox_cfg));
cfg.msg.func_short = warnx;
cfg.srcs.srcsz = 1;
cfg.srcs.srcs = srcs;
cfg.stmts.stmtsz = 1;
cfg.stmts.stmts = pstmts;

if ((p = sqlbox_alloc(&cfg)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_alloc");
if (!(dbid = sqlbox_open(p, 0)))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_open");
if (!(stmtid = sqlbox_prepare_bind(p, dbid, 1, 1, parms, 0)))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_prepare_bind");
if ((res = sqlbox_step(p, stmtid)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_step");
if (!sqlbox_finalise(p, stmtid))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_finalise");

sqlbox_free(p);
.Ed
.Pp
Creating and populating a database in the fastest way possible may be
accomplished with asynchronous operations:
.Bd -literal
struct sqlbox *p;
struct sqlbox_cfg cfg;
struct sqlbox_src srcs[] = {
  { .fname = (char *)":memory:",
    .mode = SQLBOX_SRC_RW }
};
struct sqlbox_pstmt pstmts[] = {
  { .stmt = (char *)"CREATE TABLE foo (col INT)" },
  { .stmt = (char *)"INSERT INTO foo (col) VALUES (?)" },
};
struct sqlbox_parm parms[] = {
  { .type = SQLBOX_PARM_INT,
    .iparm = 20 },
};

memset(&cfg, 0, sizeof(struct sqlbox_cfg));
cfg.msg.func_short = warnx;
cfg.srcs.srcsz = 1;
cfg.srcs.srcs = srcs;
cfg.stmts.stmtsz = 2;
cfg.stmts.stmts = pstmts;

if ((p = sqlbox_alloc(&cfg)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_alloc");
if (!sqlbox_open_async(p, 0))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_open_async");
if (!sqlbox_exec_async(p, 0, 0, 0, NULL))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_exec_async");
if (!sqlbox_exec_async(p, 0, 1, 1, parms))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_exec_async");

sqlbox_free(p);
.Ed
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_finalise 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_open 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
