.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox
.Nd database access library
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdint.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Fd #define SQLBOX_VMAJOR x
.Fd #define SQLBOX_VMINOR y
.Fd #define SQLBOX_VBUILD z
.Fd #define SQLBOX_VERSION "x.y.z"
.Fd #define SQLBOX_VSTAMP xxxyyyzzz
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm sqlbox
library is a secure database access library at this time limited to
sqlite3 databases.
Instead of operating databases in-process,
.Nm
uses a multi-process, resource-separated approach to safe-guard the
database from the calling application.
It is most effective on
.Ox
when used with
.Xr pledge 2 .
.Pp
The typical usage scenario is as follows:
.Bl -enum
.It
allocate a context with
.Xr sqlbox_alloc 3 ,
.It
open a database connection in that context with
.Xr sqlbox_open 3 ,
.It
execute statements with
.Xr sqlbox_prepare_bind 3
or
.Xr sqlbox_exec 3 ,
.It
explicitly close databases with
.Xr sqlbox_close 3 ,
.It
free the context with
.Xr sqlbox_free 3 .
.El
.Pp
There's also support for transactions
.Xr sqlbox_trans_immediate 3
and
.Xr sqlbox_trans_commit 3 ,
which should be used instead of manually specifying SQL transactions to
prevent nested requests.
.Pp
The current version of
.Nm
is defined in
.Dv SQLBOX_VERSION
as a string of major number, minor number, and build.
These values are available seperately as
.Dv SQLBOX_VMAJOR ,
.Dv SQLBOX_VMINOR ,
and
.Dv SQLBOX_VBUILD ,
respectively.
A numeric concatenation of the version is defined as
.Dv SQLBOX_VSTAMP ,
which may be used to test for version number applicability.
.Ss Compiling
Applications should use
.Xr pkg-config 1
to configure compiler and linker flags.
Compiling
.Nm
applications typically looks as follows, assuming
.Pa main.c
is the source file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
% cc `pkg-config --cflags sqlbox` main.c `pkg-config --libs sqlbox`
.Ed
.Ss Pledge Promises
The
.Nm
library is built to operate with applications that use
.Xr pledge 2
on
.Ox
to limit file-system access.
This protects the database from direct tampering and forces the
application to use the socket channel for communication.
.Pp
Prior to calling
.Xr sqlbox_alloc 3 ,
the application may pledge with
.Va stdio rpath cpath wpath flock proc fattr
and only
.Va stdio
and
.Va proc
afterward.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct sqlbox *p;
struct sqlbox_cfg cfg;
struct sqlbox_src srcs[] = {
  { .fname = (char *)":memory:",
    .mode = SQLBOX_SRC_RWC }
};

if (pledge("stdio rpath cpath "
    "wpath flock proc fattr", NULL) == -1)
  err(EXIT_FAILURE, "pledge");

memset(&cfg, 0, sizeof(struct sqlbox_cfg));
cfg.msg.func_short = warnx;
cfg.srcs.srcs = srcs;
cfg.srcs.srcsz = 1;

if ((p = sqlbox_alloc(&cfg)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_alloc");

if (pledge("stdio proc", NULL) == -1)
  err(EXIT_FAILURE, "pledge");

/* Do work. */

sqlbox_free(p);
.Ed
.\" .Sh CONTEXT
.\" For section 9 functions only.
.\" .Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO
.\" .Xr foobar 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
