.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_TRANS_IMMEDIATE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_trans_deferred ,
.Nm sqlbox_trans_exclusive ,
.Nm sqlbox_trans_immediate
.Nd begin a database transaction
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdint.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_trans_deferred
.Fa "struct sqlbox *box"
.Fa "size_t srcid"
.Fa "size_t id"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_trans_exclusive
.Fa "struct sqlbox *box"
.Fa "size_t srcid"
.Fa "size_t id"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_trans_immediate
.Fa "struct sqlbox *box"
.Fa "size_t srcid"
.Fa "size_t id"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn sqlbox_trans_deferred ,
.Fn sqlbox_trans_exclusive ,
and
.Fn sqlbox_trans_immediate
functions begin a transaction identified as non-zero
.Fa id
on source
.Fa srcid
as returned by
.Xr sqlbox_open 3 .
If
.Fa srcid
is zero, the last-opened database is used.
.Pp
These functions differ in transaction semantics:
.Fn sqlbox_trans_deferred
opens a shared reader transaction on the first read operation and a
single writer on the first write,
.Fn sqlbox_trans_exclusive
opens a single writer without other readers immediately, and
.Fn sqlbox_trans_immediate
opens a single writer with possibly other readers immediately.
.Pp
When in doubt of which kind of transaction to use,
.Fn sqlbox_trans_immediate
is the simplest and most commonly-used.
.Fn sqlbox_trans_exclusive
has the highest performance hit (by locking the entire database) and
.Fn sqlbox_trans_deferred
has complex behaviour.
.Pp
Transactions may not be nested (of any type) on any single database
source.
It is an error to
.Xr sqlbox_close 3
a database without first rolling back or committing open transactions.
.Ss SQLite3 Implementation
Runs
.Xr sqlite3_exec 3
using the
.Cm COMMIT
or
.Cm ROLLBACK
statements with the type depending on the invocation.
Randomly backs off on return of
.Dv SQLITE_BUSY ,
.Dv SQLITE_LOCKED ,
or
.Dv SQLITE_PROTOCOL ,
and returns failure on anything else other than
.Dv SQLITE_OK .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns zero if communication with
.Fa box
fails.
Otherwise, returns non-zero.
.Pp
If opening the transaction fails (nested, source not found, database
errors,
.Fa id
or
.Fa srcid
are zero), subsequent
.Fa box
access will fail.
Use
.Xr sqlbox_ping 3
to check explicitly.
.Pp
If these functions fail,
.Fa box
is no longer accessible beyond
.Xr sqlbox_ping 3
and
.Xr sqlbox_free 3 .
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_open 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_ping 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
