.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_ROLE_HIER_ALLOC 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_role_hier_alloc
.Nd allocate hierarchical role generator
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdint.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft struct sqlbox_role_hier *
.Fo sqlbox_role_hier_alloc
.Fa "size_t rolesz"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Creates a generator for hierarchical roles.
Accepts
.Fa rolesz ,
the total number of roles.
.Pp
In a hierchical role system, roles inherit the permissions of their
ancestors.
.Qq Permissions
includes SQL statements and database sources for opening/closing.
Roles may transition into descendent roles, but not siblings or back to
parents.
Self-transition is a no-op.
.Pp
By default, a role has no permissions and may not transition into any
other role (except itself).
.Pp
Once allocated, callers usually use
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_child 3
to create the hierarchy and
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_gen 3
to generate.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns the allocated context or
.Dv NULL
if memory allocation failed.
On success, the pointer must be freed with
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_free 3 .
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_child 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_free 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_gen 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
