.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_PARM_INT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_parm_float ,
.Nm sqlbox_parm_int ,
.Nm sqlbox_parm_string_alloc
.Nd convert sqlbox results
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdint.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_parm_blob
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_parm *p"
.Fa "void *v"
.Fa "size_t insz"
.Fa "size_t *outsz"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_parm_blob_alloc
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_parm *p"
.Fa "void **v"
.Fa "size_t *outsz"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_parm_float
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_parm *p"
.Fa "double *v"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_parm_int
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_parm *p"
.Fa "int64_t *v"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_parm_string
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_parm *p"
.Fa "char *v"
.Fa "size_t insz"
.Fa "size_t *outsz"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_parm_string_alloc
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_parm *p"
.Fa "char **v"
.Fa "size_t *outsz"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Convert between result types as returned from
.Xr sqlbox_step 3 .
They use the following conversion matrix, with the type-from specified
on the left-most column, and the type-to on corresponding columns of the
same row.
.Pp
.TS
r | c | c | c | c
r | c c c c.
type	float	int	string	blob
_
float	self	cast	%lf	bcopy
int	cast	self	%PRId64	bcopy
string	strtod(3)	strtoll(3)	self	bcopy
blob	-	-	-	self
.TE
.Pp
For example, an integer is cast into a string by way of the
.Qq %PRId64
modifier to the applicable function of the
.Xr printf 3
family.
.Pp
The
.Qq cast
means a native cast, while
.Qq self
simply means a non-conversion.
Values starting with
.Qq %
(the percent sign) are as passed to
.Xr asprintf 3
or
.Xr snprintf 3
depending upon whether the function allocates memory.
The
.Qq bcopy
are binary copies.
A dash
.Pq Dq \&-
means that conversion is not possible.
The remainder are functions.
.Pp
.Fn sqlbox_parm_string
and
.Fn sqlbox_parm_string_alloc
additionally accept the
.Fa outsz
parameter, which is the size (not including the trailing NUL terminator)
of the allocated string for
.Fn sqlbox_parm_string_alloc
or for how many bytes
.Em would
be written in
.Fn sqlbox_parm_string ,
again not including the trailing NUL terminator.
The
.Fa outsz
is thus equivalent to the return value of
.Xr strlcpy 3 ,
.Xr asprintf 3 ,
or
.Xr snprintf 3 .
.Pp
.Fn sqlbox_parm_string
also accepts the size of
.Fa v
as
.Fa insz ,
which is the full buffer size including where the NUL terminator will be
written.
If the resulting string isn't large enough for
.Fa insz ,
it is truncated and the NUL terminator always written.
.Pp
.Fn sqlbox_parm_blob
and
.Fn sqlbox_parm_blob_alloc
behave similarly except for with strings, where the NUL terminator is
considered part of the buffer size.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return -1 on failure, 0 if no conversion occurred (the
requested type is the input type), and 1 if a conversion occurred.
Failure occurs in memory allocation failure or
.Fn sqlbox_parm_string
was given a zero-sized buffer, underflow or overflow occurs, or the
conversion was not possible according to the above table.
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_step 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
