.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_STEP 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_step
.Nd execute a prepared statement
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdint.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft const struct sqlbox_parmset *
.Fo sqlbox_step
.Fa "struct sqlbox *box"
.Fa "size_t id"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Executes a statement
.Fa id
as returned by
.Xr sqlbox_prepare_bind 3 .
Typically run for returned rows in query statements.
If
.Fa id
is zero, the last prepared statement is used.
Returns a result set with the following fields:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va code
Either
.Dv SQLBOX_CODE_OK
if the query executed or
.Dv SQLBOX_CODE_CONSTRAINT
on a constraint violation if
.Xr sqlbox_prepare_bind 3
is passed
.Dv SQLBOX_STMT_CONSTRAINT .
.It Va ps
The results (columns) themselves or
.Dv NULL
if there are no results.
.It Va psz
The number of columns in the results.
If this is zero and
.Va code
is
.Dv SQLBOX_CODE_OK ,
this means that there are no more rows.
This applies both to the last step of a
.Li SELECT
statement or any non-returning statements like
.Li CREATE TABLE .
.El
.Pp
Result columns consist of the following fields:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va sz
The size of the data in bytes.
For strings, this includes the NUL terminator.
.It Va type
May be one of
.Dv SQLBOX_PARM_FLOAT
for a double-precision floating point value,
.Dv SQLBOX_PARM_INT
for a signed 64-bit integer,
.Dv SQLBOX_PARM_STRING
for a NUL-terminated string,
.Dv SQLBOX_PARM_BLOB
for a binary array, or
.Dv SQLBOX_PARM_NULL
for a value-less
.Qq null
result.
.It Va fparm, iparm, sparm, bparm
Values corresponding to the float, integer, string, and binary types.
.El
.Pp
The result set as a whole, including the memory allocated for each
.Va sparm
and
.Va bparm
column, is only valid until the next
.Fn sqlbox_step
or
.Xr sqlbox_finalise 3 .
.Pp
When there are no more rows available,
.Xr sqlbox_rebind 3
or
.Xr sqlbox_finalise 3
are usually used.
.Ss Filtering
If the configuration passed to
.Xr sqlbox_alloc 3
has filters, they will be used prior to returning a value.
The filter structure has the following fields:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va col
Column in result set (starting from zero) to manipulate.
If this does not refer to a valid column, it's silently ignored.
.It Va filt
Actual filter function.
This function must set
.Em all
values, including the size.
It may use any type.
If the function returns zero, the system will exit.
This may not be
.Dv NULL .
If the function needs to allocate memory, such as for setting a string
or binary data, it should set the
.Vt void
pointer to what should be passed into the
.Va free
function.
.It Va free
An optional function for freeing memory given to the pointer of
.Va filt .
.It Va stmt
The applicable statement index starting at zero.
This must be a valid statement.
.It Va type
Currently only
.Dv SQLBOX_FILT_GEN_OUT ,
for a generative filter coming out of the database.
.El
.Pp
If a filter is defined for a statement's result column, it is run in
lieu of database retrieval.
.Ss SQLite3 Implementation
Uses
.Xr sqlite3_step 3
to step through, randomly backing off on return of
.Dv SQLITE_BUSY ,
.Dv SQLITE_LOCKED ,
or
.Dv SQLITE_PROTOCOL ,
and failing if not returning
.Dv SQLITE_DONE
or
.Dv SQLITE_ROW .
Handling of
.Dv SQLITE_CONSTRAINT
depends upon whether constraint violations are allowed when
.Xr sqlbox_prepare_bind 3
was invoked.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns the results of the query or
.Dv NULL
on failure.
Failure covers situations like failure to communicate with the box,
stepping after the last result has been returned, or database error.
Constraint violations are allowed (with the appropriate
.Va code
set) only when stipulated by
.Xr sqlbox_prepare_bind 3 .
If
.Fn sqlbox_step
fails,
.Fa box
is no longer accessible beyond
.Xr sqlbox_ping 3
and
.Xr sqlbox_free 3 .
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following opens a database
.Pa db.db
and inserts an integer value into it.
It depends upon
.Xr sqlbox_free 3
to close out the database.
It assumes that the
.Li bar
column has been initialised as an SQL type
.Li INTEGER .
.Bd -literal
size_t dbid, stmtid;
struct sqlbox *p;
struct sqlbox_cfg cfg;
struct sqlbox_src srcs[] = {
  { .fname = (char *)"db.db",
    .mode = SQLBOX_SRC_RW }
};
struct sqlbox_pstmt pstmts[] = {
  { .stmt = (char *)"INSERT INTO foo (bar) VALUES (?)" },
};
struct sqlbox_parm parms[] = {
  { .iparm = 10,
    .type = SQLBOX_PARM_INT },
};
const struct sqlbox_parmset *res;

memset(&cfg, 0, sizeof(struct sqlbox_cfg));
cfg.msg.func_short = warnx;
cfg.srcs.srcsz = 1;
cfg.srcs.srcs = srcs;
cfg.stmts.stmtsz = 1;
cfg.stmts.stmts = pstmts;

if ((p = sqlbox_alloc(&cfg)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_alloc");
if (!(dbid = sqlbox_open(p, 0)))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_open");
if (!(stmtid = sqlbox_prepare_bind(p, dbid, 1, 1, parms, 0)))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_prepare_bind");
if ((res = sqlbox_step(p, stmtid)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_step");

/* The result will have zero columns. */

if (!sqlbox_finalise(p, stmtid))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_finalise");

sqlbox_free(p);
.Ed
.Pp
The following extracts and prints rows using a
.Li SELECT
statement.
It assumes an existing database.
.Bd -literal
size_t dbid, stmtid;
struct sqlbox *p;
struct sqlbox_cfg cfg;
struct sqlbox_src srcs[] = {
  { .fname = (char *)"db.db",
    .mode = SQLBOX_SRC_RW }
};
struct sqlbox_pstmt pstmts[] = {
  { .stmt = (char *)"SELECT * FROM foo" }
};
const struct sqlbox_parmset *res;

memset(&cfg, 0, sizeof(struct sqlbox_cfg));
cfg.msg.func_short = warnx;
cfg.srcs.srcsz = 1;
cfg.srcs.srcs = srcs;
cfg.stmts.stmtsz = 1;
cfg.stmts.stmts = pstmts;

if ((p = sqlbox_alloc(&cfg)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_alloc");
if (!(dbid = sqlbox_open(p, 0)))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_open");
if (!(stmtid = sqlbox_prepare_bind(p, dbid, 1, 1, parms, 0)))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_prepare_bind");
if ((res = sqlbox_step(p, stmtid)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_step");

for (i = 0; i < res->psz; i++)
  switch (res->ps[i].type) {
    case SQLBOX_PARM_BLOB:
      printf("Blob: %zu bytes\en", res->ps[i].sz);
      break;
    case SQLBOX_PARM_FLOAT:
      printf("Float: %f\en", res->ps[i].fparm);
      break;
    case SQLBOX_PARM_INT:
      printf("Blob: %" PRId64 "\en", res->ps[i].iparm);
      break;
    case SQLBOX_PARM_NULL:
      printf("Null\en");
      break;
    case SQLBOX_PARM_STRING:
      printf("String: %s\en", res->ps[i].sparm);
      break;
  }

if (!sqlbox_finalise(p, stmtid))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_finalise");

sqlbox_free(p);
.Ed
.Pp
The following example shows how filters may be used to change the
outcome of database queries.
First, define a filter, in this one that generates an integer:
.Bd -literal
static int
filter_int(struct sqlbox_parm *p, void **arg)
{
  p->type = SQLBOX_PARM_INT;
  p->iparm = 20;
  return 1;
}
.Ed
.Pp
Next, assign the filter for use.
This uses the asynchronous versions of functions when possible.
It also assumes that the database
.Pa db.db
is already populated with at least a single integer column.
.Bd -literal
struct sqlbox *p;
struct sqlbox_cfg cfg;
struct sqlbox_src srcs[] = {
  { .fname = (char *)"db.db",
    .mode = SQLBOX_SRC_RW }
};
struct sqlbox_pstmt	 pstmts[] = {
  { .stmt = (char *)"SELECT * FROM foo" }
};
struct sqlbox_filt	 filts[] = {
  { .col = 0,
    .stmt = 0,
    .type = SQLBOX_FILT_GEN_OUT,
    .filt = filter_int,
    .free = NULL }
};
const struct sqlbox_parmset *res;

memset(&cfg, 0, sizeof(struct sqlbox_cfg));
cfg.msg.func_short = warnx;
cfg.srcs.srcsz = 1;
cfg.srcs.srcs = srcs;
cfg.stmts.stmtsz = 1;
cfg.stmts.stmts = pstmts;
cfg.filts.filtsz = 1;
cfg.filts.filts = filts;

if ((p = sqlbox_alloc(&cfg)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_alloc");
if (sqlbox_open_async(p, 0)))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_open_async");
if (sqlbox_prepare_bind_async(p, 0, 2, 0, NULL, 0))
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_prepare_bind_async");
if ((res = sqlbox_step(p, 0)) == NULL)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_step");
if (res->psz < 1)
  errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "not enough columns");
if (res->ps[0].type == SQLBOX_PARM_INT)
  printf("Integer: %" PRId64 "\en", res->ps[i].iparm);

/* That should have printed 20. */

sqlbox_free(p);
.Ed
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_finalise 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_prepare_bind 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_rebind 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
