.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_ROLE_HIER_GEN 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_role_hier_gen
.Nd generate hierarchical roles
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdint.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft int
.Fo sqlbox_role_hier_gen
.Fa "const struct sqlbox_role_hier *p"
.Fa "struct sqlbox_roles *roles"
.Fa "size_t defrole"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Generate hierarchical roles in
.Fa roles
from
.Fa p .
Any data already set in
.Fa roles
is discarded.
Also accepts
.Fa defrole ,
the initial role for the system.
.Pp
.Fn sqlbox_role_hier_gen
creates the hierchical system from prior calls to
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_child 3
for the hierarchy specification,
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_src 3
for permitted database sources, and
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_stmt 3
for permitted statements.
.Pp
On success, the allocated roles are set in
.Fa roles .
These may be freed by later invoking
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_gen_free 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns zero on memory allocation failure or if
.Fa defrole
is not a valid role.
An exception to this is if
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_alloc 3
was passed zero as the number or roles, in which case
.Fa defrole
must be zero.
On success, the pointer must be freed with
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_free 3 .
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_child 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_free 3 ,
.Xr sqlbox_role_hier_gen 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
