.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SQLBOX_FREE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sqlbox_free
.Nd frees sqlbox context
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb sqlbox
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stddef.h
.In sqlbox.h
.Ft void
.Fo sqlbox_free
.Fa "struct sqlbox *box"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Shuts down
.Fa box
by closing the box communication channel and releasing memory.
When the
.Fa box
channel closes, it will finalise open statements, closes open databases,
and release memory.
This does not free any of the
.Vt sqlbox_cfg
memory passed to
.Xr sqlbox_alloc 3 .
.Pp
If
.Fa box
is
.Dv NULL ,
does nothing.
The
.Fa box
should not be used subsequent this function.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.Sh EXAMPLES
This trivial example allocates then frees a context.
.Bd -literal
struct sqlbox *p;
struct sqlbox_cfg cfg;

memset(&cfg, 0, sizeof(struct sqlbox_cfg));
if ((p = sqlbox_alloc(&cfg)) == NULL)
	errx(EXIT_FAILURE, "sqlbox_alloc");
sqlbox_free(p);
.Ed
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sqlbox_alloc 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
